[IMP] accounting: new tax return feature (#14829)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/reporting/tax_returns.rst

<accounting/tax-returns/advance-payments>` (based on the :doc:`fiscal localizations
<../../fiscal_localizations>`). Each item on the list includes:

- A period (month or quarter).
- A deadline date.
- The related company and :ref:`branch(es) <general/branches>`, if applicable.
- Action steps, such as :guilabel:`Review`, :guilabel:`Submit`, and :guilabel:`Pay`, and their
  status.
- Action buttons: These are displayed as primary (purple) and secondary (grey) buttons to indicate
  their priority.
- A :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` :guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)` menu for additional options.

.. image:: tax_returns/tax-return-view.png
   :alt: Tax return tool overview

.. note::
   - Before the tax return is reviewed, the number of :guilabel:`Pending` or :guilabel:`Passed` tax
     validation checks is displayed in red or green, respectively.
   - If the :guilabel:`Deadline` date has passed, it appears in red.
   - When the :ref:`Review <accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-review>`, :ref:`Submit
     <accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-submit>`, or :ref:`Pay
     <accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-pay>` step is reached for a pending tax return, it appears

>      in green in the action steps status summary.

Reviewer: I think this could go in the list item on line 121 instead (and rephrased to avoid repetitions if needed)

   - Click the :icon:`fa-cog` (:guilabel:`gear`) icon and :guilabel:`Copy to Documents` to save the
     report to the :doc:`Documents <../../../productivity/documents>` app. Select the format to
     :guilabel:`Export to`, the :guilabel:`Documents Name`, the :guilabel:`Folder` to store it in,
     and add any :guilabel:`Tags`. Then click :guilabel:`Export`.

To create a new return, click :guilabel:`New`, select the relevant :guilabel:`Return Type`, and
fill in the required :guilabel:`Dates`. Then, click :guilabel:`Generate Return`. The following
returns can be generated:

- :guilabel:`Annual Closing: Corporate Tax`
- :guilabel:`VAT` (return)
- :guilabel:`VAT Listing` (Belgium-specific)
- :guilabel:`EC Sales List` (EU-specific)
- :guilabel:`Advance Payment` (Belgium-specific)
- :guilabel:`Intrastat` (EU-specific)

.. _accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-review:

Review
******

To start the review of a tax return, click :guilabel:`Review` on the relevant tax return line:

- If all automatic tax validation checks have passed, the tax return has completed the
  :guilabel:`Review` step, and the :ref:`Submit <accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-submit>` step can

>   proceed. If needed, click :guilabel:`See Checks` to view all checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :guilabel:`Review` step, and the tax return can be :ref:`submitted <accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-submit>`. If needed, click :guilabel:`See Checks` to view all checks.
```

- :guilabel:`Reminder`: Define when Odoo should send reminders to submit the tax return.
- :guilabel:`Journal`: Update the journal where the tax return is recorded, if needed.

.. note::
   This information is usually configured during the :doc:`app's initial setup <../get_started>`.

.. _accounting/tax-returns/tax-grids:

Tax Grids
---------

Odoo generates tax reports based on the :guilabel:`Tax Grids` settings configured for each tax. All
recorded transactions must apply the correct tax rates to ensure accurate reporting.

:guilabel:`Tax Grids` are displayed in the :guilabel:`Journal Items` tab of any invoice or bill.

.. image:: tax_returns/tax-return-grids.png
   :alt: see which tax grids are used to record transactions in Odoo Accounting

To configure tax grids for taxes, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Taxes`,
open the relevant tax, and edit the tax settings and the tax grids used to record invoices or
refunds.

.. note::
   Taxes and reports are usually pre-configured in Odoo: A :ref:`fiscal localization package
   <fiscal_localizations/packages>` is installed according to the country selected during database

>    creation.

Reviewer: I think I want to suggest that we change this because while this is true, it could also be the country selected for the company when you create or edit it. Should we change this to something more generally true like "according to the country selected for the company'? and maybe send users to the Companies documentation as well?

     <accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-submit>`, or :ref:`Pay
     <accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-pay>` step is reached for a pending tax return, it appears
     in green in the action steps status view.

.. tip::
   - To export all tax returns from the selected period, click the :icon:`fa-cog` (:guilabel:`gear`)
     icon, then click :guilabel:`Export all` to download the tax returns XLSX.
   - All status changes are logged in the chatter. Click on any tax return or advance payment line
     to view the chatter.

.. _accounting/tax-returns/vat-report:

VAT report
~~~~~~~~~~

Each pending tax return (VAT report) follows these steps: :ref:`review
<accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-review>`, :ref:`submit
<accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-submit>`, and :ref:`pay <accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-pay>`.

To open a tax return, click the local VAT report smart button (or :guilabel:`Generic Tax
report`) on the corresponding tax return line in the :guilabel:`Tax Return` view.

.. Tip::
   - Click :guilabel:`PDF` or :guilabel:`XLSX` to generate a PDF or XLSX file, respectively.
   - Click the :icon:`fa-cog` (:guilabel:`gear`) icon and :guilabel:`Copy to Documents` to save the

>      report to the Documents app. Select the format to :guilabel:`Export to`, the

Reviewer: Should we maybe add a doc link to the Documents doc page here for good measure?

     :guilabel:`Documents Name`, the :guilabel:`Folder` to store it in, and add any
     :guilabel:`Tags`. Then click :guilabel:`Export`.

To create a new return, click :guilabel:`New`, select the relevant :guilabel:`Return Type`, and
fill in the required :guilabel:`Dates`. Then, click :guilabel:`Generate Return`. The following
returns can be generated:

- :guilabel:`Annual Closing: Corporate Tax`
- :guilabel:`VAT` (return)
- :guilabel:`VAT Listing` (Belgium specific)
- :guilabel:`EC Sales List` (EU specific)
- :guilabel:`Advance Payment` (Belgium specific)

> - :guilabel:`Intrastat` (EU specific)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`VAT Listing` (Belgium-specific)
- :guilabel:`EC Sales List` (EU-specific)
- :guilabel:`Advance Payment` (Belgium-specific)
- :guilabel:`Intrastat` (EU-specific)
```

.. _accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-review:

> Review

Reviewer: I think I wouldn't use a numbered list here in this section below and use plain text instead since each main list item isn't really an instruction? and I think I would mention the text in #3 before #2?

paragraph 1: To start the review, click review blabla (with bullet list of validation checks)
paragraph 2: Each tax check is either marked (with bullet list of options)
paragraph 3: The following actions (with bullet list of actions)

     activity or the :icon:`fa-check` :guilabel:`(check)` icon to view planned activities.

#. In the :guilabel:`Checks` view, each check card is either marked with a :icon:`fa-check`
   :guilabel:`(pass)` or :icon:`fa-times` :guilabel:`(fail)`. If a check fails, there are two
   options:

   - Click on the failed check's card to fix the issue.
   - Click :guilabel:`Validate` to pass the check without fixing the issue.

.. tip::
   - To view all the validation checks for a tax return, click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v`
     :guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)` icon on the corresponding tax return line in the
     :guilabel:`Tax Return` view and select :guilabel:`View Checks`.
   - Once a tax report has been reviewed but not yet submitted, additional invoices or bills from
     that period can still be posted and included in the closing entry. To do so, click the
     :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` :guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)` icon on the relevant tax return line in
     the Tax return dashboard and select :guilabel:`Reset` to review checks before submitting the
     tax return.

.. _accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-submit:

Submit
******

> Once a tax return has completed the :guilabel:`Review` step, proceed as follows:

Reviewer: Could we say something a bit more practial like: Once all checks have passed or have been validated?
(not super sure about my suggestion, but this was just to illustrate the idea)

#. In the :guilabel:`Tax Return` view, click the local VAT report (or :guilabel:`Generic Tax
   report`) from the relevant tax return line to open and review the tax return.
#. After reviewing the tax return, click :guilabel:`Submit`.
#. In the pop-up window, follow the local :guilabel:`Instructions`, and click :guilabel:`Mark as
   Submitted` or :ref:`Mark Paid <accounting/tax-returns/vat-return-pay>`.

> On submitting the tax return, the :guilabel:`Lock Tax Return` date is automatically updated, and the

Reviewer: should we reference that section of the doc page?

Pay
***

Once a tax return is submitted, a :guilabel:`Payment` window appears if a tax payment is
required. It displays all necessary payment details to complete the transaction, including a QR code
for the banking app (based on the :doc:`fiscal localizations <../../fiscal_localizations>`). There
are two options:

- Click :guilabel:`Mark Paid` after completing the payment: the corresponding tax return line
  disappears from the :guilabel:`Tax Return` view.
- Click :guilabel:`Pay Later`: the corresponding tax return line remains visible in the
  :guilabel:`Tax Return` view, indicating the amount due. Click the :icon:`fa-paperclip`
  :guilabel:`(paperclip)` icon to access the PDF and XLSX files of the submitted tax return.

  .. image:: tax_returns/tax-return-submitted.png
     :alt: view when tax return is submitted

.. _accounting/tax-returns/advance-payments:

Advance tax payments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::
   Advance tax payments are specific to local :doc:`fiscal localizations
   <../../fiscal_localizations>` and the requirements of certain countries' tax systems.

To mark a tax payment as completed, click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` :guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)`

> icon and select :guilabel:`Mark as Completed`.

Reviewer: I don't understandthe workflow I think; why would we mark the tax payment as completed in this case?

For each pending advance tax payment, click :guilabel:`Pay`. In the :guilabel:`Advance Payment`
window, follow the local recommendations, fill in the required local fields, and use the provided

> payment details to finalize the transaction. Two options are available:

Reviewer: same as above, and so I'm not not sure where we are? still in the tax return view and I have to click Pay for the tax return line? but if I marked it as completed, it's disappeared from the list, right? 
and why "pending"? let's discuss this, I think it might be a "me" issue :see_no_evil: sorry!!
